So we now want to use animation instead of transition,
let's say we want to slide this in,
we could also achieve a slide-in effect with the transition property but for demo purposes, let's use
animation.
I need to set up the slide-enter class therefore, I haven't attached it up there yet but I will do
so in a second,
slide-enter, here we will have slide-enter-active and then we will also need slide-leave
and of course slide-leave-active.
So these are the css classes which you could now use by setting up a name of slide here,
I'll leave it at fade for now though.
Now these classes don't do that much right now, for animations to be playable,
I also need to set up some keyframes with @keyframes and I will have a slide-in animation and then
a slide-out animation.
Now here you could specify the individual percentages,
I'm going to say from and then to to keep it real simple and I want to start for sliding it in with transform,
so when I move it in its position here with translateY on the y axis and then I want to move it by
20 pixels and 2 is where I want to end and I want to end at the real position of the element, hence translateY
shall be set to 0 which is the position the element really has in the document flow.
Well and for, I can now basically copy that for the slide-out animation, so slide-out like this
and then all I need to do here is move this like that and then rename this from and to, whoops, from and to to also slide
it out on the y axis again, so that we have a nice sliding animation, of course set up any animation you
want.
Now with these keyframes here configured,
I can now set up the slide class up here.
Now on slide-enter, I could set up transform and then translateY and then 20 pixels because that is
our beginning state here, though as I do set it up as a keyframe here,
I don't really need to set it up here again,
it wouldn't hurt but it also isn't needed,
so no special starting state again because we do set up the starting state here in the keyframes since
we'll use the css animation. In slide-enter-active,
I now want to play this animation so the animation shall be slide-in referring to this keyframe here of
course,
over one second let's say we have that ease-out, ease-in function to end a bit slower than we start
and importantly, we need to set up forwards so that the element stays in the finishing position of this
animation and doesn't snap back to the start. Well and we're leaving here, there
I want to use no initial state because I no need to, the starting position of the element is the default
position of the element but I want to add animation for the time where this active class is attached
and here, I want to slide it in, excuse me, I want to use slide-out or one second with ease-out again and
forwards to keep it down there.
And with that if we save this, we can now go up here,
copy that,
the div in this transition now, add a second one with the slide class and let's reload this and
showed us, this slides up and it slides down.
Now this already looks great,
we see now we're using a css animation to use it or to animate this, though it's a bit too bad
or I don't like that it instantly slides down and appears like that, it would be nicer if it would also
become transparent over the time period.
So in the next video, let's see how we can mix transition and animation.